Why Python for Data Analysis?
For many people, the Python programming language has strong appeal. Since its first appearance in 1991, Python has become one of the most popular interpreted programming languages, along with Perl, Ruby, and others.
Python and Ruby have become especially popular since 2005 or so for building websites using their numerous web frameworks, like Rails (Ruby) and Django (Python). Such languages are often called scripting languages, as
they can be used to quickly write small programs, or scripts to automate other tasks. I don’t like the term “scripting language,” as it carries a connotation
that they cannot be used for building serious software. Among interpreted languages, for various historical and cultural reasons, Python has developed a large and active scientific computing and data analysis community. In the last 10 years, Python has gone from a bleeding-edge or “at your own risk” scientific computing language to one of the most important languages for data science, machine learning, and general software development in academia and industry.
For data analysis and interactive computing and data visualization, Python will inevitably draw comparisons with other open source and commercial programming languages and tools in wide use, such as R, MATLAB, SAS, 
Stata, and others. In recent years, Python’s improved support for libraries (such as pandas and scikit-learn) has made it a popular choice for data analysis tasks. Combined with Python’s overall strength for general-purpose software engineering, it is an excellent option as a primary language for building data applications.